# Reflective: Print I

#### Olivia Taylor

## The Art of Printing

One of my personal sayings is "no idea is a new idea." I can admit that there have been visionaries in our history, like Steve Jobs. However, I feel as though attributing a technology to a single person discredits the lineage of which it was developed. In *The Machine That Made Us*, Fry had a particular admiration for Gutenberg as the inventor of the printing press. Likely, there were many printing presses in the world at the time, but none that had been adopted into Western society. In fact, Borsuk mentioned in *The Book* that moveable type may have been around for up to one thousand years in China and Korea. In white man's history, though, Gutenberg Bible was the FIRST printed book ever created. Fry's emphasis on Gutenberg as the original seems close minded, not looking at history through a global lens. Even so, I am sure that the art migrated to Europe long before Gutenberg. Engineering is all about improving technology from our personal experience - no idea is a new idea.

That being said, I don't believe Gutenberg's name is remembered for not. If engineering is the improvement of technology, he did so with the hand mould. The engineer in me was fascinated by this technology. It is simple in mechanism, yet clever in design, to create near perfect replicas with ease. I can imagine this handy device, that Gutenberg was able to perfect, propelled him to make printing a viable technology in the Western world. His Bibles also proved the importance of moveable type to his society, allowing for access to books for a wider audience. Print revolutionized the Western world, and I think it is okay to attribute this cultural phenomenon to the man. To give him credit as sole inventor, though, is still something I am unable to do.

Beyond the history and the technology, I have an admiration for the art and the process of the printing press. Reading through "A Design Guide to the Letterpress Printing Process," I was excited by printing and its application. The process and how it intertwines with aspects of art and design fascinate the crafter, rather than the engineer, in me. Being able to get my hands on the type in class on Thursday was incredible. I felt like I was experiencing history through art. I admit that setting lines was hard at first, but once I got a feel for the case I was able to pick up my pace. I can see how this may become intuitive, like typing on a keyboard. I still feel like the mechanical nature of it makes it more arduous than any modern equivalent, though.

In terms of bringing print to a modern era, I was a bit skeptical when reading "How Letterpress Printing Came Back from the Dead." The thought of bringing new technologies to an old art seemed inauthentic. However, after experiencing just a snapshot of the art firsthand, I understood the desire to bring it to a new level. I was in the mindset of many traditionalists when it comes to new technology. In class, we discussed the cycle of nostalgia. Mark Twain saw typewriters as old and mechanical, and now they are romanticized. What is old feels more familiar, and so it feels right. However, innovation is exciting. Bringing new techniques and technologies to letterpress like photopolymer and 3D printing is just a modern way of connecting to an old art.

This week has taught me to stay open minded about letterpress, in its history, technology, and art. I am excited to get to use it more hands-on in the next couple of weeks, and incorporate it into my own art for the book project. In terms of defining a book, which seems to be my main journey through this class, it broadens the field even more. Looking at the media of the letterpress printed codex as both creative and effective, it makes me question what we really look for in a book.
