# Reflective: Binding

#### Olivia Taylor

## Judge a Book by its Cover

In class on Monday, we discussed our definition of the book. There is a fear that this definition will become too broad, and that the term will lose overall meaning when it has too many meanings. However, a good point was brought up - using synonyms to detail nuances leads to too many narrow meanings, which can also create a meaninglessness. In my journey to find the meaning of the book, I felt like I have started getting broader and broader with my definition. This discussion in class made me realize that my definition was becoming too vast. During the last week, especially in listening to others' book reports, I have begun to think what ISN'T a book in my view, rather than what is.

This week in class, we really honed in on the book as an object. Reading "How to design an awarded letterpress printed book," I realized just how important every material aspect of a book is, and how it can used in conjunction with the content. Dias and Dantas looked for paper, size, and binding that would match the whim of the story. I liked the thought of the book as an object enhancing the book as content. It made me realize the value of the printed codex as more than just nostalgia. It is truly a way of experiencing a book. I began to think about ways that the material elements could be used in creative ways. Can we use the material to juxtapose a different message? I asked the class about this, and Lauren had a thoughtful example. She spoke about a book about African-American pride, and how there were pieces of textured hair in the margins to send a message about the marginalization of this community in a very literal way. I think using this sort of element is not common, but hopefully a new generation of codex will play more with the structure, and the book as an object to send a message.

The classic idiom tells us to not judge a book by its cover. However, if used as an ornament for display, the cover is all that needs to be judged. I was thinking about this when I was at my family's home in New Hampshire. My grandmother owned a used book store, and I went into the back library of the house in search of old books. I judged these books by their covers. I looked for those with the oldest style of binding, flipping through to see the quality of the paper, and the year of publication. I found a book as old as 1879. It was not until after inspecting the book as an object that I considered the content. These books, all similar in structure, had a variety of content - guidebooks, children's books, history books - all from the late 19th, early 20th century. These books were artifacts to me, and although the topics themselves may not have been too interesting, the books held great fascination.

I think the book itself is art just as much as the content. While binding our notebooks in class, I felt the artistry. I always enjoy a craft; by the end I had great pride in my creation. It was not the content that gave me any satisfaction, as there is no content. It was the little book itself that had the meaning to me. While I still believe the content is important in defining a book, there is value in the cover, in the pages, and in the binding. There is no harm in judging a book by its cover, because there is meaning to be found.
